.TH xawtv 1 "(c) 1997 Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
xawtv - a X11 program for watching TV
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xawtv [ options ] [ station name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xawtv
is a simple program for watching TV with your linux box. It uses the
Athena widgets.
.B xawtv
supports the bttv driver and v4l (video4linux, included in 2.1.x).

.B xawtv
reads the config file $HOME/.xawtv at startup.  This file holds the
available TV stations and a few settings like TV norm.  You have to
create the config file yourself, see below for details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -b depth
force xawtv into
.B depth
bits color depth.  Might be needed for 24/32 bits.
.TP
.B -f
startup in fullscreen mode.
.TP
.B -m
startup with mouse pointer turned off.
.TP
.B -n
don't read the config file ($HOME/.xawtv).
.TP
.B -o filename
set output filename for ppm grabbing (default is snap000.ppm)
.TP
.B -j filename
set output filename for jpeg grabbing (default is snap000.jpeg)
.TP
.B -v level
Be verbose,
.B level
may be 0 (default), 1 or 2.  It exists just for debugging.
.TP
.B -x
disable the usage of XFree extenions (DGA, VidMode).
.TP
.B -g device
video4linux device (default is /dev/video).
.SH GETTING STARTED
Just start up xawtv, this will work without a config file too.  Then
check out the options (right mouse button) and adjust the settings
(TV norm, Video source, freqency table).  With the cursor keys you
can control the tuner and look for TV Stations.  If you've found one,
start up your favorite editor and stick it into the $HOME/.xawtv
config file.
.SS Mouse functions
The left mouse button will popup a menu with all TV stations found in
the config file. The middle button switches to the next station. The
right button brings up a window with alot of options and control
functions.
.SS Keyboard Shortcuts
.nf
V            Video (Capture) on/off
A            Audio on/off
M            Mouse pointer on/off
F            Fullscreen on/off
G            Grab picture (full size, ppm)
J            Grab picture (full size, jpeg)
Ctrl+G       Grab picture (window size, ppm)
Ctrl+J       Grab picture (window size, jpeg)
O            Popup Options Window
C            Popup Channels Window
Z            Channel Hopping (tune in every station a few seconds)
Ctrl+Z       Fast Channel Hopping (grab the images for the Channel Window)

up/down      tune up/down one channel
left/right   fine tuning
pgup/pgdown  station up/down
Ctrl+up      scan for next station

ESC,Q        Exit

F5/F6        Bright up/down
F7/F8        Hue
F9/F10       Contrast
F11/F12      Color
.fi
.SS config file
You can stick the channels into a config file ($HOME/.xawtv). Looks like this:

.nf
[ORB]
channel = 27
.fi

The branches hold some string (TV station ID), the lines below are the
settings for that channel. Usually the channel line is enouth.

There are a few other options.  They are allowed both for a station
(and will be used for that station) and before the first station (will
be used as default for all stations). The later is useful for common
settings like the TV norm. See also the example below.

Here is the detailed description of the options:
.TP
.B fine = n
finetuning (what left+right keys do), default: 0
.TP
.B norm = pal | ntsc | secam
which TV norm, default is pal
.TP
.B key = keysym
Hotkey for the channel. All X11 keysyms allowed here. You can prefix
a keysym with Modifier+, i.e. ^F is "Ctrl+F".
.TP
.B capture = off | overlay | grabdisplay
capture mode: off, overlay (default, TV card => video, 0% cpu) or
grabdisplay (TV card => main memory => X-Server => video, frame rate
depends on load and picture size).
.TP
.B source = Television | Composite1 | Composite1 | SVHS
input source
.TP
.B color = n
.TP
.B bright = n
.TP
.B hue = n
.TP
.B contrast = n
Valid range is 0-65535, default is 32768
.P
There are three global options allowed before the first station only:
.TP
.B fullscreen = width x height
specify which video mode should be used for full-screen.  Works with
XFree only, and of cource you need a valid modeline for this mode in
your XF86Config file.
.TP
.B wm-off-by = [+-]x[+-]y
Some WM's handle static gravity not correct (I know mwm and
kwm).  This is somewhat boring with fullscreen mode.  With this
options you can correct this with a displacement for moving
windows.  For example, wm-off-by = -4-24 does the trick for kwm (the
KDE window manager).
.TP
.B freqtab = 
select a channel-to-freqency mapping.  Options window->Frequency table
brings up a menu with all valid entries (and allows table-switching at
runtime). 
.TP
.B pixsize = width x height
size of the channel pixmaps (within Channels window).  0x0 disables this
feature.
.TP
.B mixer = device
This allows to control volume using the sound card mixer. device is
*not* /dev/mixer, but the name of the sound source (line1 for me, just
take one of the mixer programs floating around and try which is the tv
card...).
Volume-control works with the keypad: + is up, - is down, Enter is
mute.
.SS config file example
My config file looks like this:
.P
.nf
# this is a comment
# empty lines are ignored too

source  = television
norm    = pal
freqtab = pal-bcast-europe
#mixer   = synth
fullscreen = 768x576

# for /etc/XF86Config
# Modeline  "pal"  50.00  768 832 856 1000  576 590 595 630  -hsync -vsync

[ZDF]
channel=33
key=F1

[ORB]
channel = 27
key = F2

# more stations follow here

[Camera]
source = Composite1
key = K
.fi
.SH BUGS
Whats this?
.SH SEE ALSO
http://www.cs.tu-berlin.de/~kraxel/linux/#xawtv (xawtv homepage)
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@cs.tu-berlin.de>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997,98 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@cs.tu-berlin.de>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.SH MISC
You are the 105th visitor of this page.
