.TH radio 1 "(c) 1998,99 Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
radio - console radio application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radio [ frequency ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radio
is a interactice, ncurses-bases console radio application.  If a
command line argument is present,
.B radio
tries to interpret this as frequency (in MHz).
.P
If you want to use radio non-interactive to set the frequency,
redirect both stdin and out to /dev/null.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B radio
picks up station names and present stations from a config file. 
It can parse kradio (KDE radio app) config files, therefore it
first tries the usual KDE config file location:
\fB~/.kde/share/config/kradiorc\fP. Failing that,
.B radio
tries \fB~/.radio\fP (which makes things a bit easier for people
who don't use kradio).
.P
The format looks like this:
.P
.nf
# KDE Config File
[Buttons]
1=95800000
2=91400000
[Stations]
100600000=Hundert,6
95800000=Radio eins
102600000=Fritz
94300000=r.s.2
91400000=Berliner Rundfunk
.fi
.P
The [Buttons] section can have up to eight entries.  That are
the present stations, they get mapped to F1-F8.  The [Stations]
section maps frequencies to station names.  The frequencies in
both sections are specified in Hz.
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-berlin.de>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-99 Gerd Knorr

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
